In this video, you will learn
to describe what is meant
by availability in
the context of the CIA triad.
The last one it's
for availability.
Availability means,
and actually we
deal with availability every day,
it means that any data should
be available always
when it's needed.
So a clear example of
a lack of availability is,
do not have any kind of backups
for our data for our systems.
So what happens when
a cyber attack for
example occurs and
somebody download ransomware in
our network and all the
data from our computers,
from our servers are
erased or are encrypted?
Well, the easiest thing to do
actually is go to our
backup and restore
the data using
the last available backup
available or using
the last backup
that we have on our system,
and restore everything,
and continue our life,
continue our work as
nothing happened.
But in some occasions,
these processes storing a
backup or generating backups,
it's something that is none
neccesarilly common in
most of the enterprises.
So some technical implementation
that we could use
to implement or add
availability in
our systems are rates.
Rates are like this arrangement.
These technologies use something
that for example will allow
us to keep or to install
two, three, four,
even naturally handle thousands
of hard drives in our
servers in our systems,
to backup or to add
redundancy into our
servers for our data.
So for example, if we have
four different drives
in our file server,
and OneDrive goes down because
a mechanical part broken, well,
it doesn't matter, we have
three different drives that has
the same information and we
could maintain
the access to our data.
Clusters are technology
that allow us
to maintain a different set
of servers working as one.
So it's something
similar as rates,
but on clusters we're not
the only with hard drives,
we're dealing with servers.
ISP redundancy
obviously something
important or what
happens if we only have
one Internet connection
to our company
and something happened and
that Internet
connection goes down,
well, such important is in
these days when we are using
a lot of things on Cloud,
probably it's a good idea to
have an ex or a second ISP
to have Internet in our company.
Obviously backups,
we already talked
about backups and are
the important things that we
need to keep in mind as soon
as we work with backups
and restore data.